effects of hurricane isabel in new jersey  hurricane isabel  tropical storm  waves and beach erosion during isabel  winds  1-minute sustained 40 mph kmh  pressure  997 mbar 29.44 inhg  fatalities  1 direct 1 indirect  damage  million usd  areas affected  new jersey  part of the 2003 atlantic hurricane season  part of a series on hurricane isabel  effects  united states  northcarolina  virginia  marylandandwashingtondc  delaware  pennsylvania  new jersey  newyorkandnewengland  other wikis  commons isabel images  the effects of hurricane isabel in new jersey in 2003 were overall moderate limited to fallen trees two deaths and in damage 2008USD. hurricane isabel formed from a tropical wave on september 6 in the tropical atlantic ocean it moved northwestward and within an environment of light wind shear and warm waters it steadily strengthened to reach peak winds of 165mph on september 11. after fluctuating in intensity for four days isabel gradually weakened and made landfall on the outer banks of north carolina with winds of 105mph on september 18. it quickly weakened over land and became extratropical over western pennsylvania the next day several days before isabel made landfall there existed uncertainty in where the hurricane would strike at least one computer model predicted a landfall on new jersey and as a result services across the state thoroughly prepared for the hurricane.1  isabel passed 215miles southwest of the state though its large wind core produced tropical storm force winds across much of the state the winds downed hundreds of trees and power lines leaving hundreds of thousands without power a falling tree killed one person hurricane isabel produced rough waves and a moderate storm surge along the coastline one person was killed from the rough waves and at least 50 locations along the jersey shore reported beach erosion from the hurricane  contents  1 preparations  2 impact  3 see also  4 references  5 external links  preparationsedit  hurricane isabel to the southeast of north carolina  44hours before hurricane isabel made landfall on the outer banks of north carolina the national hurricane center issued tropical storm watch for the coastline from little egg inlet southward into the mid-atlantic a day later the watch was extended northward to sandy hook when isabel was 26hours from making landfall the watches were changed to tropical storm warnings and 10hours before it struck land the national hurricane center issued a tropical storm warning for the remainder of the new jersey coastline.1 the national hurricane center also briefly issued a hurricane watch for the new jersey coastline.2 while over the western atlantic ocean as a category 5 hurricane forecasters predicted isabel would move northwestward and within five days be at a position 170miles south of cape may as a 115-mph major hurricane.3 by four days before the hurricane struck land at least one computer model predicted isabel would strike new Jersey.4  news stations were stationed with crews along the jersey shore several days in advance of isabel to provide breaking news and live conditions.5 many residents prepared their houses by boarding windows and purchasing emergency supplies the sussex county chapter of the american red cross advised local high schools to be on stand-by as potential shelters in the event evacuation occurred.6 emergency coordinators in several counties were on alert though none issued evacuations.7 in preparation for anticipated power outages the jersey central power and light company arranged to receive more electrical crews from its parent company FirstEnergy.6 other utility workers from various locations as far as canada left for the state in the event of power outages.8  several flights in and out of the state were delayed or canceled,9 and the cape may-lewes ferry canceled travel across the delaware bay during the duration of isabel in atlantic city casino workers prepared for coastal flooding by placing sandbags at boardwalk entrances.8 new jersey transit workers secured its buses railways and light rail equipment to ensure service would remain accessible during and after the hurricane nj transit prepared backup generators pumps and chainsaws with workers inspecting trains and the paths of the lines.10 fema mobilized and dispatched an urban search and rescue task force of 28people to the state for possible rescue duty.11 days before the storm made landfall the salvation army prepared food and aid for potentially affected citizens.12 in anticipation for the effects of isabel governor jim mcgreevey declared a state of emergency which allowed the federal emergency management agency to deal with the situation.13  impactedit  isabel produced a storm surge along the new jersey coastline of up to 6.5feet in cape may higher amounts occurred along the delaware river peaking in the state at 10.6feet in burlington at its closest approach isabel passed within about 215miles of the state and as a result the outer rainbands produced light rainfall wildwood along the southeast coast reported 1.3inches of rain,1 while lincoln park in the northern portion of the state recorded 2.07inches of precipitation.14 the large wind field of the hurricane produced moderate winds across the state a shoal in the delaware bay experienced sustained winds of 54mph with gusts to 71mph cape may reported tropical storm force winds with gusts to 61mph while newark in the northern portion of the state experienced gusts to 44mph  hurricane isabel produced slightly above normal tides and rough surf along the jersey shore killing one surfer off of wildwood Crest.15 the combination of gusty winds and the heavy surf produced moderate beach erosion along much of the coastline primarily to beaches facing southeastward in the delaware bay and river area no significant erosion was reported though coastal flooding from the hurricane washed out a road and destroyed the deck of a house in baypoint in cape may county waves eroded the beaches by up to 4feet in ocean city and avalon with several cities experiencing a loss of dunes and geotubes in whale beach being exposed waves from isabel in atlantic county resulted in light damage minor coastal flooding and slight beach erosion the beaches of southern ocean county experienced a loss of 3 to 4feet to 1.2m of sand while locations further to the north experienced only minor erosion most coastal areas of monmouth county reported eroded beaches by up to 4feet with union beach losing about 5,000sq. feet m of sand.16  moderate wind gusts throughout the state downed hundreds of trees tree limbs and power lines over 382,000people were without power one of the worst power outages on record for area utilities.15 downed trees and power lines closed major streets and schools in union County.17 one downed tree greatly damaged a house in Middletown,18 and in hudson county several trees fell onto and damaged cars a downed tree in englewood injured a woman when she was struck,17 and a woman in independence township was killed when a fallen tree landed on the vehicle she was driving.15 strong winds from isabel blew out the windows in an office building in east rutherford causing injuries to two women when they were struck.15 throughout the state damage totaled to about 2008USD.1  see alsoedit  tropical cyclones portal  list of new jersey hurricanes  list of retired atlantic hurricane names  referencesedit  a b c d e jack beven hugh cobb isabel tropical cyclone report national hurricane center archived from the original on 2013-11-14. retrieved 2014-02-07.  national oceanic and atmospheric administration isabel service assessment retrieved december 11, 2009.  lawrence isabel discussion thirty-two national hurricane center retrieved december 11, 2009.  avila isabel discussion thirty-three nhc retrieved december 11, 2009.  tom layson news anchors prepare for hurricane isabel poynter online archived from the original on september 27, 2007. retrieved december 11, 2009.  a b pat mindos on the storm hurricane could hit new jersey by thursday herald staff writer retrieved december 11, 2009.  american radio relay league radio operators ready for hurricane isabel archived from the original on september 30, 2007. retrieved december 11, 2009.  a b associated press 18, 2003. look at isabels effects fox news retrieved december 11, 2009.  cnncom snarls air traffic in the east retrieved december 11, 2009.  new jersey transit news transit preparing for hurricane isabel archived from the original on september 30, 2007. retrieved december 11, 2009.  office of the department of homeland security security prepares federal response assets in preparation for hurricane isabels landfall archived from the original on october 21, 2009. retrieved december 11, 2009.  tricia pellegrini salvation army nj division prepares for hurricane isabel the salvation army new jersey division archived from the original on september 30, 2007. retrieved december 11, 2009.  mike derer than one million people lose power as isabel roars ashore and spreads out associated press retrieved december 11, 2009.  gorse frugis 19, 2003. tropical storm report on hurricane isabel mount holly new jersey national weather service retrieved december 11, 2009.  a b c d national climatic data center report for new jersey archived from the original on may 19, 2011. retrieved december 11, 2009.  storm survey new jersey department of environmental protection september 19, 2003. archived from the original on february 12, 2012. retrieved december 11, 2009.  a b national climatic data center report for new jersey retrieved december 11, 2009.  ben mcconville 20, 2003. trail of destruction leaves 16 dead the scotsman retrieved december 11, 2009.  external linksedit  national hurricane center tropical cyclone report  v  t  e  hurricane isabel  north carolina  virginia  maryland and washington dc  delaware  pennsylvania  new jersey  new york and new england  retrieved from  categories hurricane isabelhurricanes in new Jersey2003 in new jerseyeffects of hurricaneshidden categories good articles  