james franklin  james franklin with scott gudes and retired air force general jack kelly director of nws  james l franklin is a former weather forecaster who served with the national hurricane center as its branch chief.1 he is a graduate of the massachusetts institute of Technology2 and of ransom everglades School3 in 1976 in miami where he was a co-valedictorian  franklin liked to add his wit to many of his forecasts much like his counterpart lixion avila and in contrast with the often dry commentary of other forecasters for example  in forecasting 2002 atlantic hurricane seasons hurricane kyle franklin noted fun long-range run of the gfs has kyle its decayed remnants actually reaching south florida just in time for the kickoff of the miamiflorida state game one week from tomorrow.4 later as the storm deteriorated franklin started his forecast discussion with a line from the bee gees song stayin Alive.5  when forecasting tropical storm franklin in 2005, franklin said the storm not the forecaster has become a little better organized overnight it is quite possible that little or nothing will be left of franklin the storm not the forecaster in 23 days  in the tropical cyclone report for hurricane vince in 2005, franklin alluded to my fair lady when he quipped rain in spain was mainly less than 2 inches although 3.30 inches fell in the plain at Cordoba.7  in a discussion for tropical depression ana in 2009, franklin noted that intensity forecast is complicated by the uncertain existence of an actual tropical cyclone...8  referencesedit  says budget cuts could hurt hurricane predictions nolacom the associated press july 4, 2017. retrieved july 5, 2017.  the best of new orleans news feature lessons from lili  alumni directory coconut grove fl ransom-everglades school 1981.  franklin james storm kyle discussion number 58. national hurricane center retrieved 2010-06-05.  franklin james depression kyle discussion number 78. national hurricane center retrieved 2010-06-05.  franklin james storm franklin discussion number 8. national hurricane center retrieved 2010-06-05.  tropical cyclone reporthurricane vince  franklin james depression ana discussion 22. national hurricane center retrieved 2010-06-05.  this article about an american scientist is a stub you can help wikipedia by expanding it  v  t  e  this biographical article about a climatologist or meteorologist is a stub you can help wikipedia by expanding it  v  t  e  retrieved from  categories american meteorologistsliving peoplemassachusetts institute of technology alumniamerican scientist stubsatmospheric scientist stubshidden categories year of birth missing peopleall stub articles  