the hurricane  for other uses see hurricane  hurricane  the cleveland show episode  episode no  Season3  episode 2  directed by  ron rubio  written by  kirker butler  production code  2APS20  original air date  october 2, 2011  guest appearances  edward asner as the narrator  john slattery as mayor larry box  episode chronology  previous   next  on grace street  the cleveland show 3  list of the cleveland show episodes  hurricane is the second episode of the third season of the animated comedy series the cleveland show an episode produced for season 2. it is the first part of the night of the hurricane block with family guy and american dad the first such event in the animated television line-up of fox the episode first aired on fox in the united states on october 2, 2011.  seth macfarlane was initially approached by kevin reilly the president of the entertainment division of fox with the idea of a crossover the episode was first announced at the 2010 san diego comic-con international it was originally scheduled to air on may 1, 2011 as the twenty-first episode for the second season of the series but was delayed until october 2, 2011 because of the april 2528, 2011 tornado outbreak.1  contents  1 plot  2 production and development  3 ratings  4 see also  5 references  6 external links  plotedit  when a hurricane hits stoolbend the browntubbs family tries to salvage what is left of their vacation despite the lack of any food in the house and cleveland jr shocks everyone by revealing that he does not believe in god although he claims he is not an atheist either which he calls religion pointing out that some atheists such as brian griffin have been just as condescending and judgmental as those they criticize the family members attempt to persuade cleveland jr through reason emotional appeal and even a production number but instead find their own senses of religion and faith tested  as the storm worsens a hungry cleveland confronts his son over the possibility of having food stored in his room cleveland jr explains he used a very scientific method to ration the food when the family is still resistant to his non-religious lifestyle accusing him of wanting the food all to himself cleveland jr locks the food away in spite cleveland calls on god to smite cleveland jr for his actions at which point a tree crashes through the house and pins him instead of his son the family members are unable to lift the tree by hand and decide to pray to god for help cleveland jr is able to rig together a pulley system and lifts the tree using his own weight the family disagrees over whether god was involved in cleveland jrs actions and the belief of cleveland jr is left unresolved as the hurricane heads for quahog  production and developmentedit  were talks initially of doing a crossover with all the characters from all the shows but it became a little bit of a conundrum because you have three different staffs each of whom is used to writing three different sets of characters this idea of an outside force that sweeps its way through all three shows seemed like a cool way to accomplish that  seth macfarlane in an interview with the hollywood Reporter23  kirker butler wrote the episode  the crossover event was first announced in july 2010 by series creator seth macfarlane at the comic-con international in san diego california it was the first of its kind in the history of the animated television line-up on Fox.45 kevin reilly the entertainment president of the fox broadcasting company originally pitched the idea for the crossover which was inspired by theme nights of comedy shows from the 1980s.26 macfarlane described the crossover event to be an challenge and a undertaking he chose to do one central story line so that each writing staff would not have to write stories for unfamiliar characters.2 he was also willing to do another crossover event if this one receives successful ratings.2  in april 2011, the executives of the fox broadcasting company officially announced that the episode would air on may 1 as part of the night of the hurricane crossover alongside the family guy episode seashell party and the american dad episode however on april 29, it was announced that the crossover event would be removed from the schedule in response to a series of tornadoes that killed nearly 300 people in the southern united States.689101112 the crossover was subsequently replaced by repeats of am the walrus from american dad writes a bestseller from family guy and nothin but mutton bustin from the cleveland Show.1812 macfarlane later agreed with the decisions after being consulted with the executives of fox and a spokeswoman for the company later announced that the episode would air the succeeding season.8  ratingsedit  hurricane first aired in the united states on october 2, 2011 as part of the animation television night on fox it was preceded by episodes of the simpsons and its sister shows american dad and family guy it was viewed by 4.73 million viewers upon its initial airing despite simultaneously airing with desperate housewives on abc amazing race on cbs and a match between the baltimore ravens and the new york jets on NBC.1313 hurricane garnered a 2.66 rating in the 18-49 demographic according to the nielsen ratings.13  see alsoedit  night of the hurricane  family guy seashell party  american dad  referencesedit  a b pulls sundays guy hurricane crossover with cleveland show dad the futon critic retrieved april 29, 2011.  a b c d goldberg lesley 30, 2011. macfarlane three-show crossover was an challenge the hollywood reporter retrieved april 30, 2011.  ho rodney postpones hurricane-themed family guy american dad cleveland show shows after recent storms atlanta journal-constitution retrieved may 1, 2011.  mika king 24, 2011. announces may 2011 schedule first ever animation domination crossover entertainment beacon retrieved april 24, 2011.  harnick chris 24, 2011. crossover event for guy cleveland show and dad tv squad aol retrieved april 24, 2011.  a b yanks storm episodes of family guy other animated comedies chicago sun-times april 29, 2011. retrieved may 1, 2011.  keck william exclusives foxs big storm tv guide retrieved 2011-04-24.  a b c goldberg lesley 30, 2011. pulls guy dad show hurricane episode the hollywood reporter retrieved april 30, 2011.  itzkoff dave 29, 2011. postpones animated comedies with hurricane story line new york times retrieved may 1, 2011.  mullins jenna 29, 2011. pulls hurricane episodes of family guy the cleveland show and american dad e online comcast retrieved may 1, 2011.  hibberd james 29, 2011. pulls guy hurricane episodes entertainment weekly retrieved may 7, 2011.  a b de moraes lisa 29, 2011. guy hurricane-themed crossover episodes postponed the marquee blog cnn retrieved may 7, 2011.  a b c gorman bill 2, 2011. ratings sunday am housewives fox animations fall night football tops night tv by the numbers retrieved october 3, 2011.  external linksedit  hurricane on imdb  hurricane at tvcom  precededby  bffs  the cleveland show 3  succeededby  nightmare on grace street  v  t  e  the cleveland show  characters  cleveland brown  cleveland brown jr  episodes  season 1   doggone daddy-daughter dinner dance  one about friends  brown thanksgiving  of streams  rollercoaster  season 2  better faster browner  live  the great pancake cleveland brown  walk  do you solve a problem like roberta  to cool  show of shows  season 3   hurricane  on grace street  day  season 4  pot die  hangover part tubbs  dreamin the cleves are brown  related  night of the hurricane  family guy  american dad  animation domination  retrieved from  categories 2011 american television episodesatheism in televisionthe cleveland show 3 episodescrossover animation  